Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So in this section we're going to tackle two crucial concepts
you need to understand to understand modern web and mobile technologies.
First, we're going to talk about frameworks, what they are,
how you use them, and then we're going to talk about APIs,
what they do, and how those things work.
So, to start off, let's talk about the first item: frameworks.
What is a framework?
Well, frameworks, first of all, are probably something you have heard of,
but you probably couldn't tell the difference between it and the
programming language that was also being referenced in the same sentence.
This is completely normal.
It's also a very common buzzword you're going to hear
because there are a lot of frameworks out there and
they're getting more and more popular.
That's just adding to the confusion.
Now, did anyone out there think that when I said Ruby
it sounded weird because I didn't say Ruby on Rails?
Well, 90% of the time you'll hear that phrase,
Ruby is going to be part of Ruby on Rails.
Ruby, out of that phrase, is the programming language,
we've talked about that before,
and Rails is the name of the framework that pairs really well with Ruby.
So what is a framework? I ask yet again.
The short version is that a programming framework is basically
a predefined structure that programmers can use to build upon,
by changing existing code or adding code of their own
to create whatever sought after product they're trying to go for.
All right, let's break that down so it's a little bit easier to digest.
Programming (going back to the basics) is just the way that you make
an instructions list for a computer, or an
operating system, or a browser to do something.
So if I wanted to make a blog, let's say,
I would write some programming instruction on what images
and what text to display, and where to put the buttons.
Ok? We're on the same page there.
But there are millions of people out there that are creating blogs
and 80% of the work in creating a blog is
something that somebody else has already done.
So why would someone spend hundreds of hours re-writing
those programmatic instructions for things so basic and common as
subscribe to this email list, or take me to a
page listing out all the article in this blog.
That's where frameworks come in.
They're pre-made code that attempts to remove or at least
speed up the process of making redundant parts.
Whenever you make a website or a web app,
you'll always have some kind of similar structure.
Frameworks will help you by setting up that folder structure
and linking everything together for you so that you can spend time
working on the parts of the app that are actually different and unique.
And since you can write an application in a variety of different languages,
we have a variety of different frameworks to cater to each specific language.
If you're using PHP, you might use something like the Zend framework,
or CakePHP, or one called Laravel or Loravel, I can never pronounce it right.
If you're using Python, you might use Django, you might use Flask,
you might use this newer one called Pyramid.
Different strokes for different folks.
Now, the best way to remember this is to use the analogy of a resume,
and if you're not American, we'll just say CV.
If you were to make a resume / CV, would you make it from complete scratch?
Well, first of all, a lot of people do.
But you could also use a template, and then within that template
edit out the parts you don't want, and customize the parts you do want.
And since there are a lot of templates out there,
each one might give you something the other doesn't.
The same is true of frameworks.
Ok, so we have a decent idea of what frameworks are roughly.
They're a pre-defined structure that tries to speed up development
by giving pre-made elements you can re-use and taking out
the tedious part of creating structure
and redundant tasks, and redundant systems.
So in this section we're going to look at some of the most popular frameworks,
see what they do, and build some basic familiarity with them.
All right guys, see you in the next lecture!